README.md, before:

# random-alphabet-py
## Description
A command line tool to encode and decode text using a randomized cipher written in Python.

I do not recommend using this program for any security or privacy critical purposes. 
I am not specialized in cryptography or security. This is a hobby project that I thought was cool.

Encoding generated with this program is not compatible with [RandomAlphabet](https://github.com/CorruptedArk/RandomAlphabet) or vice-versa.

## Usage
If installed on your system, you run as `randomalphabet` with valid arguments from any directory. 
If not installed, run `python3 randomalphabet` from this git project root directory. 

To view command line arguments and options use `randomalphabet -h` or `randomalphabet --help`

## Installation
To install without a distro specific package, run `make install` from the project root directory.

On Debian and Ubuntu based distros you can install the .deb package once it is released.
On Red Hat and Fedora based distros you can install the .rpm package once it is released.

## Packaging
To build a .deb package, first install the package `stdeb` either from apt or pip3. 
Next, run `make deb` from this project root directory.

To build a .rpm package, first install the package `rpmdevtools` from dnf.
Next, run `make rpm` from this project root directory.

Commit message:

Added instructions to install from my PPA repo

README.md, after:

# random-alphabet-py
## Description
A command line tool to encode and decode text using a randomized cipher written in Python.

I do not recommend using this program for any security or privacy critical purposes. 
I am not specialized in cryptography or security. This is a hobby project that I thought was cool.

Encoding generated with this program is not compatible with [RandomAlphabet](https://github.com/CorruptedArk/RandomAlphabet) or vice-versa.

## Usage
If installed on your system, you run as `randomalphabet` with valid arguments from any directory. 
If not installed, run `python3 randomalphabet` from this git project root directory. 

To view command line arguments and options use `randomalphabet -h` or `randomalphabet --help`

## Installation
To install without a distro specific package, run `make install` from the project root directory.

### Debian Package
You can install it from my [PPA](https://launchpad.net/~corruptedark/+archive/ubuntu/ppa).

#### On Ubuntu 20.04+ based distros 
To add the repository to your system, run:
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:corruptedark/ppa
sudo apt update
```
After adding the repository, install the package with: 

`sudo apt install python3-randomalphabet`

#### On Debian Buster
First install `software-properties-common`
	
Then to add the repository to your system, run:
```
sudo sh -c 'echo "deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/corruptedark/ppa/ubuntu focal main\ndeb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/corruptedark/ppa/ubuntu focal main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/corruptedark.list'
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys E2BA18922C0D6991
sudo apt update
```
After adding the repository, install the package with: 

`sudo apt install python3-randomalphabet`

### Red Hat Package
On Red Hat and Fedora based distros you can install the .rpm package once it is released.

## Packaging
To build a .deb package, first install the package `stdeb` either from apt or pip3. 
Next, run `make deb` from this project root directory.

To build a .rpm package, first install the package `rpmdevtools` from dnf.
Next, run `make rpm` from this project root directory.
